[MUSIC]
>> Nina Zakharenko: So the way that
we store values in JavaScript is with
variables.
And you can either declare it and
initialize it online,
which is what you'll usually see.
Or you can declare it first and then
initialize it somewhere down the line.
Until that value is initialized,
that variable,
it has no value.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
really important to consider,
don't forget the var.
Like right here, this var y.
Don't forget that keyword when you're
using a variable for the very first time.
If you don't have it in there, and
you use that same variable name again,
you might accidentally overwrite it.
And we'll talk about scope
a little bit more in detail
later.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
Brian mentioned some of this
before how to it applies to CSS.
So for CSS, classes, for example,
you name them word dash word.
In JavaScript,
we name our variables in camelCase.
So that's lowercase word and then
word with an uppercase first letter is
the next word, and so on and so on.
Variables either start with a lowercase
letter, a dollar sign, or an underscore.
But make sure they don't contain any
special symbols like exclamation point or
pound, hashtag,
whatever you wanna call it.
That's not supported, and
you'll get an error.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
some words are reserved by
the JavaScript language.
And they can't be used as
variable names either.
For a beginner this is kind of a weird
error cuz you'll get an error and
your code looks right.
And you aren't really
sure what's going on.
But these are some pretty common words
that you can't use as JavaScript variables
like in or do, this, for.
There's a pretty long list of them and
after class you can go through it there's
a link on the bottom of the slide.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So,
variables can be of different types.
And JavaScript is cool
because it's dynamic.
You don't have to let it know what type of
variable is gonna be before you use it.
So, strings are contained in two quotes.
It's any sort of characters, numbers
that you won't be using mathematically.
Numbers don't have the quotes and
they can be with or without the decimal.
So if we go
>> Nina Zakharenko: Back into
our
>> Nina Zakharenko: Console
here.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Sorry,
I'm trying to make it bigger, it's.
>> Nina Zakharenko: There
we go.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Can
everyone see that font?
So, let's try to declare some variables.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
this variable is called name and
it's a string because it's in quotes.
If you press enter,
you'll see undefined which means that
running this line of code,
didn't return anything.
To make one more variable called age.
This one's a number.
So in JavaScript if you wanna
see the type of variable,
you can use this typeof command.
And it's a special function.
You're not calling it with parenthesis,
which you'll see later one.
So just note that this
one isn't gonna look
like some of the other things
you're going to try today.
So, if we do typeof name, we're gonna get
back a string, typeof age is a number.
We'll talk about functions later on but
let's create an empty one let's call
it myFunc.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
a totally empty function it takes
no arguments if we do typeof myFunc
we'll get back a function.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So another kind
of variable type is a Boolean.
And Booleans can have two values.
True which is yes or false which is no.
There are also special types,
if you declare a variable and
you don't set you don't put anything
in it the value of that is undefined.
If you want to explicitly empty
a variable you can set it to null.
And that'll clear out the value.